Welcome back all!
Today we're going to go ahead
jump into a next chapter
So, we're still sticking to some basic
stuff
and today we're going to have a look
at interaction with the user
so we will attempt to make some
sort of an interactive program
basic as it may be,
it is still a form of interaction between
a user and the program itself.
So, in this particular chapter,
I will show you how to input values
from a keyboard.
We will also talk about some advanced
things regarding variables
and their declaration.
Our first example will illustrate
basically how to write a program
that prompts a user to enter
an integer as an input.
And then, I don't know, outputs a
squared value of that number or something
like that. It doesn't really matter.
So, let's go ahead and create
ourselves a new project for a new chapter.
So, just go ahead and go
into new projects
console application,
next make sure you
select C++
click on next again.
And I'm going to let it stay
on desktop
but you can basically put it anyway
you want
and I shall be naming this one.
We shall name it
Oops!
Sorry, my bad!
I just messed up my notes
but it's ok.
Let's just call it interaction
with the users.
Interaction
with the user
Hopefully I spelled that in a
proper way.
Go ahead and click on next.
Finished, that's it!
Plus on sources, main.cpp
and already you are given
this template
at a certain point in time,
we might actually be using
a template or
creating our own but for the time being,
we will be typing everything
ourselves.
We're not skipping one thing at all.
So, let's begin
with the inclusion of a library,
a library whose resources we will
need.
And on top of that let's go ahead
and do a bit of a zoom in as well.
include
and here we shall include iostream.
So, input output stream.
Down below, we'll go ahead and
declare our main function.
main
do this.
Give it a scope and now let's begin.
Type it int
number; So, first of all, we are
declaring a variable number of type int.
This number will hold the user input.
Next up, we will type in std.
So, we will use something
from std namespace
cout
insertion operator.
and we will write something simple here
like,
Enter
an
integer.
Excellent.
So, let's go ahead and close it.
A line terminator and
with this we are going to prompt
the user to enter an integer.
Basically, this is basically
going to be printed out into the screen
and say to the user "Hey
enter and integer."
Very well, but now we need a method for
accepting what the user inputs.
Again we will use something
from namespace std
type in std::cin
and we will do greater and greater than
sign.
number; that's it.
So,
input from the keyboard
and
this greater greater than sign is
basically the opposite of lesser than
lesser than sign.
It is called and referred to as
extraction operator.
It extracts the value from a variable
so
you have std::
cin
we will present our standard
input from
the keyboard.
And then puts into a variable number.
So we will accept some sort of an input
from the keyboard
and then we will use the extraction
operator and then we will place that value
within the variable number.
cin is basically short for character input
c - character in- input.
As simple as that, no big deal
there.
Ok, so now,
we are going to go ahead and square
that particular number.
Let's go ahead and declare
a variable
in which we will store that number.
squared
=
number
*number
basically this is a square
one times itself.
Simple enough, I don't think I need
to explain what the square of a number is.
; here
We have declared a variable square here.
I have only named it squared.
It is up to you
as I have explained it before
to name variables
pretty much whichever way you want
but
it is a standard and a good
programming practice to name them
in some sort of a meaningful way.
So, I have declared it as variable
and directly I will assign
the result of multiplying
two numbers or multiplying
a number with itself.
You have an asterisk sign in between.
This is a binary operator. So, this is
the asterisk sign in between
which is a binary operator and is
used for multiplication.
Keep in mind that the value
of the variable number has not
changed at all.
We have simply multiplied by itself but
we haven't stored this into
number. We are storing this to
the variable squared.
So the value of the variable
number still stays the same.
No change there.
Ok, next up.
std::
cout
lesser and lesser than sign,
Squared
number
quotation marks of course and we're going
to do this.
We're basically just formatting
the output unto the screen
you want to make it as pretty as
as you can.
So, that people can actually read it.
is and we're going to do this a bit
unnecessary. All of this could have been
placed in one and in one line
but it's ok fine
no problems.
And we're going to go ahead and do this
again.
Now, we shall insert a variable here.
Squared
do this std
::
endl
meaning, we are going into the next
line
and it is not only used to go into the next line
but it flushes the current buffer.
it empties it completely.
That's why you also use
a /n
/n which is a character
for a new line
but in a lot of cases, it is better
to use endl as it is a buffer
New Entry 143
It's a buffer
basically. It just flushes the entire
buffer.
there is nothing that remains in it.
So, this will print out
the squared number.
down below, we can again use
std
cout
which will be of course printed out
to the next line due to the usage
of endl
Squared
number
<<
number here, we're using the variable
number whose value is going to be
placed here.
and let's go ahead and type in "is"
space
do this.
number
*
number because you can also
form operations
here directly. You don't need
to perform them separately
from this. In such a way
where we would actually
save ourselves the trouble
of declaring this variable
to store this value.
But if we do it like this, this value
won't be stored anywhere and
we won't be able to reuse it
later.
Anywhere is a relative term.
But I'm just saying that
we won't be able to reuse this value
elsewhere, unless we store it
to some sort of a variable.
and now we can
basically just do this.
I don't want to
do it like that.
Let's just do it here,
endl
;
Excellent, so this will once again
print out the square number.
But we can directly print it out, we
can directly print out the squared value
without declaring the value squared
as I said because
then we can actually
store it.
And once this squared value is stored,
within the variable squared,
then it can be reused elsewhere
in the code as many times as we want.
We won't need to type in number of times
some number of times, some number
and
then calculate that every single time.
So, not only
that we actually
save space
like this. But we also,
save the processor type.
If we were to do this every
single time,
we would occupy more processer time
than we do it like this.
So we just multiply
them once, we store them into a variable
and then we reuse the variable
on and later on
to our hearts content.
But if we needed the square number
of this particular variable,
then we would need
to multiply every single time
down the
road
without actually
storing it anywhere.
Anyway, I'm pretty sure you get the idea,
if you don't the discussion section
is always open
and is always most welcoming to you.
Now at the end of it we shall type in
return
; and
let's go ahead and end this.
Have I done this? Yes, ok,
its' already there.
No big deal.
So, let's go ahead and run our code
and see
what actually happens
you build and run, oh there's a
problem somewhere.
What could it be?
So, it's stating that it is
on this line.
Oh, right right right.
endl was not declared
so std ::
there we go.
Let's go ahead and run again.
and there you go, it says
enter an integer.
10.
So square of 10 is 100.
Press enter, there you go.
Square number is 100. I seem to have
an extra space here.
But no big deal, we can fix
that rather fast.
and square number
10 is
100.
Ok, I could have written this in a better
fashion.
The square of the number 10
is 100 or something like that
but it really doesn't matter.
I just want you to make a point
here. So, let's go ahead and make this
short
fix where there is an extra space
and it's right here.
square number
this number squared is
This number
squared.
This number squared is
and we shall
do this.
I don't even know I wrote
it like this originally, so
the squared
This number squared
Nah!
This number
this number and
number
squared
is
tralala
Let's go ahead and
do this.
Again,
so this number
squared is 100. This number
10 squared is100.
Ok, there we go.
So, this number squared is 100,
N squared is 100.
Really irrelevant, this is just the
formatting. I just wanted to show you
this two main things here
that you can
form some sort of operation,
get a result
store it into a variable,
and then recycle that variable later on.
Use it on the rest of your code.
For example, print it out
like this.
Or you could actually do the math
immediately in the print out
in the
print out statement and we will
actually get a value from this
and this would
get printed out unto the screen
Anyway, I bid you farewell.
And I shall see you in the part...
in the next part... in the next tutorial
of this
mini chapter